Today we'll talk about drawing insights from ACAP curve the cap curve is actually a very very very powerful
feature in modeling.
And you can derive lots of valuable insights for your business just from this one tool.
So let's see what we can get from him.
We're going to look at three things.
The first one is the obvious benefit of the likelihood score so the score that we get by running our
model tells us which customers are most likely to leave the company in this case is its the company
could be take take up an offer or for which observations the event is most like a Turk or so where is
it most likely that's the dependent variable will be a yes a one and not a zero.
So this score allows us to already derive insights and we can Ranko customers we can create deciles
or quartal and address different groups of customers differently so if they have a high score then they'll
have one treatment if they have a low score they'll have a different treatment maybe a little bit different
or for maybe it'll be a different type of message and things like that.
So that's the first thing.
And that's kind of before the cap score that's already an obvious benefit for the business.
Just having this ranking available saw a new parameter of your customers gives you a lot of insights
and which you can work with.
Now the cap curve itself gives you two main things.
The first one has to do with budget constraints let's say let's forget about this situation for a second
that we're dealing with customers that are churning and let's imagine that the model that we've constructed
is for customers that take up an offer so basically we sent an e-mail offer and we build a model to
see what is the likelihood of customers actually clicking on our link and buying the product so the
end result that we're measuring the dependent variable is did the customer buy the product or not.
And in that case here we've got a total number of customers that we in our test was 10000 total number
that bought the product was 2000 percent.
That board was 20 percent.
And here we also have the same score but this time it means that the likelihood of the customers by
the predicted probability that the customer this specific customer in this number will actually go ahead
and purchase the product.
And what does the cap curve tell us in that case.
Well it allows us to once again we're using the ranking to create the cap curve.
So at the start we'll have the most likely customers to buy at the end will have the least likely customers
to buy.
Now when we talk about budget constraints this is a very very common feature and this is something that
you might come across in a marketing department and a company and let's say they can only send this
e-mail to a certain number of customers.
We of course e-mail isn't that expensive to send.
It costs maybe like I don't know have the exact figures but I would assume maybe about one cent or 10
one tenth of a cent to send an e-mail or something like that but it still cost some money.
So if a company has 10 million customers and even if it costs one tenth of a cent to send an e-mail
right so that's sort of you're going to want to get a good to make a $10000 just to send all of those
e-mails and obviously the marketing department has other activities to do so they might allocate a certain
amount of money just for this specific activity and might not be sufficient to cover all of the customers
of the company.
And in that case you have to pick and choose who you send to.
If you don't have a model then you will have to send to a random sample of let's say let's say you have
10 million customers and you can only send it to five million.
In that case you would have to select a random sample of five billion just send it to them.
But if you have a model then it's very obvious who you're going to send it to you're going to send it
to these first 50 percent that are ranked here in the top 50 percent because they have the highest likelihood
of responding.
And in fact you can tell right away from the cap curve you can go back to the marketing manager and
say look I have a model I've built a model for you and you can if you even if you send to 50 percent
of the overall base of all customers you said this offer.
You will already hit 80 percent of the Chanters.
So yes ideally or 80 percent of the people who are most likely to take up the offer let's fix up this
access here so it's not confusing us.
So maximum will be one right.
It's close that.
So that makes more makes it a bit better to visualize right so what are you saying is it would be ideal
if the marquee magic could send it to everybody and then he would obviously hit 100 percent of the people
that are likely to actually take up the offer.
But you're kind of.
You understand you and the market manager that you both understand that this is budget constraint and
you can only send it to 50 percent of customers if you sense it randomly.
Right.
If he sends it to a random 50 percent of his of the customers of the company he'll obviously hit you
look at you looking at this blue line he'll obviously only get 50 percent of the people that churn which
makes sense right.
If you take 50 percent of a sample you'll get 50 percent of.
I keep saying you'll get 50 percent of the people that are actually going to take up the offer.
But if he uses your model then if he sends it to 50 percent of the people in the company according to
your moral according to your ranking then he will actually benefit because you'll contact who knows
that he'll contact about 80 percent of the people who will take up the offer so he's getting more for
the value more for the money that he's investing.
He's expecting to he only get 50 percent of the people that will take up the offer.
He'll actually get 80 percent.
And that is how these models and the cap curve can help you in situations with a budget constraint.
So even if he can only contract 25 right over here you might see that defect is even even stronger So
here you're going from 50 sort of 50 you're going to 80 percent.
Yeah.
So that's a 30 percent increase so a relative increase of just over then just more than half right over
here.
This this part is just more than half of this part.
Well whereas if you only have 25 right if you go and you can take 25 percent of the people then you're
going from 25 percent of the people will take up the offer you go all the way to 55 percent of people
to go for your more than doubling his expectation over here.
So that's that will.
That's like a normal thing to observe whenever you're to the left of the halfway line you're more likely
to increase the benefit substantially when you go to the right.
The benefit is increased less because the curve is much steeper here.
So you can already tell that whatever budget constraint you have you can add a lot of value to the business
so like even here instead of Qanta if you can say it's 8.3 percent of the customers you can help him
reach twenty two percent of the people that are likely to take up the offer.
What's a value add to the business.
Marketing Manager will love you for this.
This is this is incredible stuff.
So that's that's the one first main benefit of the cap curve.
And the second benefit of the cap curve is efficiency.
So sometimes you might not have a budget constraint like this but at the same time what's the point
of sending the email to a hundred people when you can send it 100 percent when you can send it to less
and still get approximately the same result.
So let's go back to our example of Tzschirner is right here.
For instance let's say you you can contact all of your customers in your company and then you'll definitely
hit the 100 percent mark.
But at the same time you already know that these people on the on the back of this curve they're very
unlikely to leave the company.
The likelihood of churning is very low compared to these people.
Right.
So that's number one.
Number two is even if you contact So this is somewhere about 80 percent no that's on 80 percent that's
80 percent.
So this is even less.
This is about 70 percent.
So even if you contact about 70 percent of your customers in your bank you will already conta you will
already cover approximately 91 percent of the people that are likely to leave your company.
They are likely to leave your bank.
So that is very close to 100 percent.
That's number one.
Number two is that the remaining nine percent are actually very very unlikely to leave your bank.
The likelihood is is minimal.
So therefore you're saving these 30 percent the money that you would spend on contacting these people
.
And not only the money that's also messaging people were followed.
You can't send too many e-mails to the same person in a month or even in a quarter because they'll consider
it as spam and they'll you know it's not a good customer experience.
So you're saving the money and you're saving the people the trouble of having to read this e-mail which
isn't that relevant to them.
And you're still getting a lot of the potential churn is getting 90 percent of the people that are there
actually going to churn.
So getting 90 percent of the people that will churn even if you contact just 70 percent of the customers
you get 91 percent.
So I think that's that's a good tradeoff.
You save money you save people the trouble of reading your e-mail and you get the most likely ones that
are going to churn the company just by contacting about 70 percent of the customers so this talks about
efficiency how you can add efficiency to existing business processes through looking at the cap curve
and creating models like this and that those are the two main benefits that you can derive.
So budget constraints and efficiency.
Let's recap quickly on what we learned in this tutorial because I feel this is quite important stuff
inside from your cap.
The first one was actually before the cap curve.
This is the likelihood score and this is the score that you get for your customers.
It adds another dimension to your understanding of your customers and allows you to work with food and
create offers based off of it or segment of customers according to that new dimension.
It's a very insightful feature that can be used across the business for different for lots of various
things that you might be required to do with your customers.
Number two is budget constraints so you can use a cap curb directly to understand who to contact to
get the best bang for your buck.
If you have a budget constraint in your marketing department or whatever department you're creating
this model for this can really really help get the best outcome for the investment into this activity
.
And three efficiencies sometimes you won't even have budget constraints.
But creating a model and building a cap curve will help you increase efficiency in terms of understanding
where to stop when when to draw the line of who you want to call into a food you want.
You don't want to contact and this doesn't only have to do with contacting people and in customer related
companies this can be in any type of organization where are you creating this model.
It will help you understand where to draw that line.
And actually the last thing I wanted to mention before we go.
Sometimes the cap won't have a flat profile like this.
Sometimes there might be kinks in here even even in our cap Carucci a little bit of a kink over here
a little bit of a kink over here then a bit of a kink a few kinks that were here but they're not that
pronounced.
If you have more pronounced kinks which of course you have to make sure that they're not crazy if your
cap curves are going all over the place and something is wrong with your model.
But if your kids are a bit more pronounced than they are here then that can give you some hints where
to set the cutoff points.
So let's say for instance you want to set a cutoff point in terms of efficiency.
Somewhere between 20 percent.
So between this line here and let's say 40 percent so between the story here and you don't know where
to set it you can pretty much set it anywhere you can set at the maximum at the minimum.
But then you see a Kinko over here and you see that the cap curve is growing really fast before the
kink and then let's say on anything it flows out and then it grows slowly.
Well that getting a hint that any investment additional investment that you make after the kink into
this specific project or into this specific activity is going to yield a much lower return on investment
than what you had before the king.
And that might be a good place for you to set the cutoff point so you set a right before the kink if
it if the curve that flattens out afterwards.
And that way whatever you're losing between the place where you set off the kind of point and your maximum
threshold for the kind of point is not going to be as great.
So basically you're finding a great place to set your cutoff point just by looking at the profile of
your Kepcher.
Once again that's are all the time.
Sometimes the model will give you hints and ideas like that and going back to our presentation one two
and three.
Likelihood score budget constraints and efficiency.
Those are the three things that you can derive from your model.
The last two are directly from a cap curve.
And I hope that these techniques will help you to help other people in your company and also worked
around budget constraints and add efficiency to existing business processes.
And I look forward to seeing your next slide.
Until then happy analyzing